Add L-M lettered article stubs from glossary (#3840)
ppy/osu-wiki: wiki/Glossary/Health_Bar/en.md

---
tags:
  - life
  - life bar
  - hp bar
---

# Health bar

> *For Health as a mechanic, see: [Health](/wiki/Beatmapping/Health/en.md)*

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*For Health as a mechanic, see: [Health](/wiki/Beatmapping/Health)*
```

> The **health bar** (also known as the *HP bar*) is a bar which displays a player's remaining [health](/wiki/Beatmapping/Health/en.md). In all [game modes](/wiki/Game_Modes/) expect for [osu!mania](/wiki/Game_Modes/osu!mania), there is an indicator moving along it, showing a player's current health. If the bar drains completely the player fails the current [beatmap](/wiki/Beatmaps/) (assuming no special game modifiers are enabled).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **health bar** (also known as the *HP bar*) is a bar which displays a player's remaining [health](/wiki/Beatmapping/Health). In all [game modes](/wiki/Game_Modes) expect [osu!mania](/wiki/Game_Modes/osu!mania), there is an indicator moving along the health bar that shows a player's current health. 

In [osu!standard](/wiki/Game_Modes/osu!) and [osu!catch](/wiki/Game_Modes/osu!catch), if the health bar drains completely, the player will fail the current [beatmap](/wiki/Beatmaps) (assuming no special game modifiers are enabled).

In [osu!taiko](/wiki/Game_Modes/osu!taiko), it is impossible to fail a beatmap *during* play, but it is possible to fail after the beatmap has ended if the player has not filled the health bar enough.
```

> In [osu!standard](/wiki/Game_Modes/osu!), [osu!catch](/wiki/Game_Modes/osu!catch), and [osu!taiko](/wiki/Game_Modes/osu!taiko) the health bar is displayed in the top-left corner of the screen. In osu!mania it is rotated 90 degrees,counterclockwise and is placed to the right of the playfield.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In osu!standard, osu!catch, and osu!taiko, the health bar is displayed in the top-left corner of the screen. Whereas in osu!mania, it is rotated 90 degrees counterclockwise, and is placed to the right of the playfield.
```

> In osu!standard and osu!catch, the healthbar will drain at a constant rate throughout the course of a beatmap, with the exception of breaks. This effect is known as [health drain](/wiki/Beatmapping/Health_drain/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In osu!standard and osu!catch, the health bar will drain at a constant rate throughout the course of a beatmap, with the exception of breaks. This effect is known as [health drain](/wiki/Beatmapping/Health_drain).
```
